I'm interviewing Dr. Donald McDonald, head of the
Department of Civil Engineering. Today's date is
July 22, 1981. Dr. McDonald, would you please tell
us something about your boyhood years in
Montgomery, Alabama?
I grew up in Montgomery until I went to college.
except for about three years that we lived in South
Georgia in a couple of small towns there.
My father was in the cottonseed oil business, and
he was transferred to Georgia, and then we moved
back later on. I went to the public schools there,
mostly in Montgomery. During the war, my father
was... I worked for a construction firm at Oak
Ridge, and so he was away quite a good bit, and then
moved back to Montgomery after the war was over. I
continued there, living there until I graduated
from high school, and then went to Auburn. When did
you graduate from high school? In 1948. Went on to
Auburn and took civil engineering there.
graduated in May 1952 with a Bachelor of Civil
Engineering degree. How did you develop an
interest in engineering? It was most probably,
there were several reasons. One is Auburn was a
real strong engineering school and I had no real
driving urge to be an engineer but I knew that was a
good field and so I thought I would, I was
considering that for quite a number of years but I
had summertime jobs working with the city, the
city engineer in Montgomery, and was assigned to a
surveying crew. And over a period of several
summers, I worked in various positions on a
surveying crew, starting as a rodman and a
chainman and instrument man and those things. And
so I became very familiar with surveying. And like
so many people, I thought that that was what civil
engineering was, and it was kind of fun. I enjoyed
it. Of course, I found out that civil engineering
is a lot broader than that as I got into it, but I
don't regret that. It's just that I got in sort of
the back door. I think a lot of people do that.
How was your family affected by the Depression? Do
you remember anything about that? I don't have all
that. depression baggage hanging over me. I was
born in 1930. And of course, we went into the
Depression or were just going into the Depression
right then. But I always remember we had a house and
lived a relatively comfortable life. We were not
wealthy by any means. My father was a salary
employee. But he was never out of work. And my
mother did not work at that time and didn't have to.
So I really don't have any recollections of that. I
guess when we moved to Georgia, that might have
been part of the job scene. I really don't
remember. But I didn't come out of that with any
terrible memories by any means. What about
brothers and sisters? I have one brother who lives
in Montgomery. He's a little bit older than I am.
He's an investment banker there. He's lived there
all his life except for college and the service.
After you completed your bachelor's at Auburn,
what did you do then? I was in ROTC at Auburn. And in
1952, the Korean War was going on. So everyone who
got a commission in the ROTC had to go to the
service, so I went to the Air Force and spent three
or four months in this country. I went in August of
52 and spent some time at Fort Benning, Georgia and
Langley Field, Virginia, and then was sent to
Korea in, I believe it was April of 53, in early
1953, and was there for one year. Came back, and
then when I got back, I was discharged after 20
months. In this interim, the Korean War, the
truce, I guess, was signed. So all of a sudden, they
had a need for no, certainly a less need for people
in my category, so they mustered out a bunch of us.
And I went to work for the highway department in
Montgomery and spent another year and a half or so
there. When did you go to work for the highway
department? Just after I got out of the service. It
must have been the summer of 53
or 54, I guess. Summer of 54. And how long did you
hold that position? Well, I stayed there. I was
what was called a bridge design engineer and so I
worked on designing bridges and enjoyed it for
about six months and then found out I was repeating
myself lost its interest. So I decided to go back to
graduate school. And so I worked until the fall of
1955. And in the meantime, of course, I'd applied
for graduate school and been accepted. And so I
went to graduate school in September of 55. Where?
University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign. And
you completed your master's work there? Yes, in
1957 and PhD in 1959. What was the topic of your
dissertation? The topic was a numerical study of
the vibrations of spherical shells. The
motivation was the
behavior of shell structures under dynamic
loading, such as blasts, and primarily blasts
that were sponsored by the Air Force,
earthquakes, any sort of dynamic load that might
strike a structure. And the particular
structures I was interested in was spherical
shells. So I did a computer study of the vibration
characteristics and then did a little bit on what
happens if a particular kind of blast pulse
impacts on a spherical structure. It was one of the
earlier digital
computer studies of structures. This was when the
computer business was just beginning. And
Illinois had a homemade computer that was one of
the pioneers. Not the pioneer, obviously, but one
of the earlier of this kind of computer. So I did use
that to do the calculations for my thesis.
What about your family? I married. I have three
children. When did you marry? In 1960.
And I have three children, a boy who will be a
freshman at the University of Texas next fall in
September, a girl who will be a senior at Bryan High
in September, and a 12-year-old who will be in the
seventh grade at St. Michael's Academy.
Where is your wife originally from? She's from
California, Southern California. After you got
your doctorate in 1959, what did you do then? and
went to work for Lockheed Aircraft Corporation in
Sunnyvale, California. They were just
beginning, well, they were in the early stages of
getting the missile and space satellite
business, and I went to work in the space satellite
part of what later became the Lockheed Missiles
and Space Company. It's in, as I say, in Sunnyvale,
which now is called Silicon Valley as well, that
activities going on in microcomputer chips and
that kind of thing. That of course was not, that
wasn't even on the horizon I don't think at that
time. I worked in structural dynamics for them and
stayed there three years. That's where I met my
wife and we were married as I say in 1960.
When I was there I lived in Saratoga which is a
small, was at the time a small community
just on the outskirts of San Jose. Of course, the
whole place has been paved now. The whole valley is
completely changed. In 1962, you left Lockheed.
Where did you go then? Went to Raleigh, North
Carolina. I got a job as an assistant professor at
North Carolina State in civil engineering. And so
we moved to Raleigh in August of 62, and I started
teaching. in September. And how long did you hold
that position? I was assistant professor until, I
believe it was three years, and then was promoted
to associate professor, and stayed there two more
years,
and then left NC State. And I got tenure and all
that, and I got promoted. Well, those two things
were simultaneous, tenure and promotion. So I
left in 67 and went back to work for Lockheed again,
but this time as a department manager at a research
center in Huntsville, Alabama. They were working
with NASA in the space program primarily. And I was
the manager of the structures department there.
And you stayed there from 67 to when? Till 72. Well,
late 72. become a little bit disenchanted with
industry. And Lockheed wanted to transfer me back
to California, and I didn't want to do that, nor did
my family want to move back there. And I had thought
perhaps the educational game was where I would be
anyhow. I had met the department head, Dr. Sampson
was department head at that time, and I knew him
from professional activities, professional
organizations. So I called him to see what the seen
in academia was. And so that initial call led to my
coming down here. And you came here in 1973? Yeah,
January 1973. As an instructor, I mean as a
professor in civil engineering? Yes. Okay, and
how long were you a professor of civil
engineering? Well, I still am, so eight and a half
years, I guess. You became department head in
1979? Yes, August the 1st was when I started. What
are some of your duties here as department head?
Well, I guess it's like any other department head
to administer the affairs of the department, the
fiscal and the personnel and the academic
program. Obviously, any department,
particularly one this size, one can't do that
alone and shouldn't do that, shouldn't try to do
that. But I'm responsible for coordinating all of
those activities in the department, reporting to
the dean of engineering.
About how many faculty members are there in the
civil engineering department? We have
several, 65 to 70. I forget the specific number of
people who are in either tenure track or tenured
positions, assistant professor and above. In
addition to those, we have have something like a
dozen or so people in lecturer positions.
Totally, though, each of the two major semesters
will have something like 100 people involved in
the teaching program if you add in teaching
assistants and then the lecturers into the
regular faculty. Oh, well, I shouldn't say it that
way. Teaching assistants into the faculty.
Certainly, I did not mean to exclude lecturers
from faculty.
What are some of the schools that these faculty
members are from? We have them from all over. We
have several, of course, from A&M. I'd say a fairly
large number from A&M, but we have people from the
University of Illinois, the University of
California at Berkeley, University of Texas,
Texas Tech,
just about Well, I won't say all over, but
certainly representative throughout the
country.
Probably those I named,
I would say the preponderance of people with
advanced degrees got them in those schools. But
certainly there are a lot of them. Are faculty
members expected to devote time between research
and teaching? Yes, most of the faculty in the
department are involved in one way or another in
the research program. Could you explain more
about the research program?
The faculty members in the CE department work in
every conceivable field almost in research. and
what is generally called civil engineering, and
some things which are not normally considered to
be classical civil engineering. Most of our
research is administered in either the Texas
Engineering Experiment Station or the Texas
Transportation Institute.
In fact, the faculty members will hold a joint
appointment with those two state agencies, as
well as an appointment as, say, a professor or
whatever. with the university in the civil
engineering department.
We like to encourage the faculty to do research and
also to publish the results of their research. We
feel that that's just one more service in teaching
that we have, one more function that we should
perform. It's involved and intimately involved
with our teaching, actually, particularly with
the graduate teaching program. Could you discuss
specifically some of the research projects that
are underway now or have been completed in the last
several years? Well, that would take all day, but
one of the larger projects and one of the important
ones, I think, is an environmental impact of the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve that our
Environmental Engineering Division is involved
in. The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is a program
by the federal government to store large
quantities of petroleum oil in very large salt
domes. Salt domes are subterranean, and they're
extremely stable. Well, to put the oil in, you have
to pump the brine out. And so what the government
will be doing is depositing high concentrations
of brine in the Gulf of Mexico as the oil displaces
the brine from the dome. The government obviously
wanted to know what the environmental impact of
that large slug of brine would be. So we're really
program managers of a multidisciplinary program
involving scientists and oceanographers and
biologists as well as engineers. instrumenting
and monitoring the impact of this brine. Another
program is a program with the Air Force. The Air
Force is interested in people who, well, in two
things, in developing the general field of the use
of composite materials and also in educating
engineers who are knowledgeable in design and use
of composite materials. So we have a program
sponsored by the Air Force that's both education
and teaching, and a classroom education, that
kind of education as opposed to research, in which
the faculty carry out a research program in the use
and manufacturing, design, and so on, of
composite materials. And I also conduct a degree
program so that people with BS degrees in
engineering can come here, study for a year, and
get master's degrees in some field of
engineering, but with the emphasis on the design
and use of composite materials so they can now
return to the aircraft industry and apply these
newly discovered skills to the use of composite.
Composite materials are sort of, in one sense, the
wave of the future in structural design in certain
applications because of a very high strength to
weight ratio. And naturally, if you can have
something very strong that doesn't weigh very
much, then the aircraft people are interested in
it. But now, of course, there's more and more
interest in the automotive industry and the
application of composites. Because if you save a
pound of weight in an automobile, that's a certain
amount of savings in gasoline that you don't have
to spend to push that pound around the road. Let's
see, there are other programs.
We've had programs in the study of the
behavior of subsurface, well, the ocean bottom.
It turns out that in certain areas of the Gulf, the
ocean bottom is a very uncohesive material. And
due to the wave action in storms, the wave action
can trigger huge slides, mudslides, as it were, on
the bottom of the ocean. Even though the slopes of
the ocean bottom are not very large, the material
is so uncohesive that it won't stick together,
that it'll move under these high pressures.
Naturally, the oil companies or the companies who
have that drilling are very interested in that
because if the whole floor of the ocean starts
moving, there's not a lot that, Well, it certainly
has an impact on the drilling rig, drilling
platforms. So we, in the geotechnical
engineering division, have been studying the
effect of these mudslides and the forces
generated by the mudslides so that we can then take
their results and see what the impact on the
drilling rigs would be. And then the next obvious
question is what procedures or how can we design
the... drilling rigs to resist these very large
forces that are generated by these slides. You
could go on and on. Basically, this might add a
little to this, basically we have, the civil
engineering department has six groups, we call
them, major areas, major administrative
subdivisions. These are ocean and coastal
engineering, environmental engineering,
structures, construction and materials,
geotechnical, or I guess we call it
geoengineering, and civil systems engineering.
If you look at the details of this, this covers
pretty much the broad spectrum of civil
engineering activity. And we have a research
program in every one of those areas covering many
facets of the business.
Could you explain briefly in layman's terms what a
civil engineer does? The layman's term is not the
problem. The problem is the breadth of the field. I
guess this is very simplistic, but in a sense,
civil engineers are the people who design,
construct, maintain, and run the machinery of
civilization. By this, I mean all those things,
those engineered works that are basic to running
the civilization, the transportation network,
the water supply,
disposing of the waste, constructing the
buildings, designing the facility, designing
the bridges, designing and supervising
construction of the
all the appurtenances and all the buildings that
go along with all these things, the sewer plants
and such, maintaining all of these, developing
new materials. We have a big program, for example,
in the Texas Transportation Institute in the
development of asphaltic materials that would be
used in highways and other parking lots and other
things where they use large volumes of asphalt
paving.
Involving all of this, of course, would be the
economic studies as to determine the best
approach, where to locate the facilities, what's
the best way. And by that, I mean the most, say,
cost-effective way to design them and to
construct them. So the economics of the matter, as
in all engineering, really, the economics of the
matter gets into it very, very heavily. But
there's really no limit. That's kind of classical
civil engineering. But if you look at where our
graduates go, a large percentage, a significant
percentage, I don't know the figure, but a
significant percentage of our students go to work
for the oil companies. Well, obviously, because
here in Texas, that's a very important industry.
And they're hiring people with technical
backgrounds.
How many hours does it take to get the bachelor's
degree here in civil engineering? Semester
hours? It takes 146 in our current program. And how
many for the master's and PhD?
It gets a little less rigid. There's a specified
curriculum in the undergraduate program. I
believe it's 16 hours, no more than that. 16 hours
of technical electives, but then we have some
other electives. total of about 25 hours of
electives. But it all adds up to 146. For the master
of engineering degree, the minimum is 36 hours.
But there, you look a little more closely at a
person's background and interest. Where does the
student want to go when he finishes here? And what
kind of work does he want to get into? And you might
require a few more hours, just depending on the
background, what he's had, and so on. The master of
science degree requires 32 hours, but of course,
you have to write a thesis. We require a thesis for
the master of science degree.
The PhD, for the PhD, the graduate college
requires a minimum of 96 after the bachelor's
degree. Again, if it's appropriate, we'll
require more than that. That's a minimum
requirement. And of course, a significant maybe
25% or 30% of those hours, depending on the
student, would be taken up with this
dissertation. Now, that's about right. Usually,
we'll give maybe 20 credits for the dissertation,
20 semester hours. But those are only minimum
requirements. And if it's appropriate, we'll go
over that. About how many students are now
enrolled in civil engineering here? Last fall, we
had
something like 850,
I believe was the figure, undergraduate in civil
and 115
undergraduates in the ocean engineering
program, which is a degree program in civil
engineering department. And on top of that, 150
graduate students. All those figures probably
don't add up, but it added up to around 1,200
students, undergraduates as well as graduates in
both civil and ocean engineering. Do you have any
women students in civil engineering? Yes, that's
another interesting thing. I think this is a
national observation too, but it seems that that
percentage is rising. We've had on the order of
about 12% of our undergraduate student body has
been women over the past several years. That seems
to be going up a little bit. I think with this coming
fall enrollment, we'll probably see an increase.
Certainly a trend of increasing the number of the
percent of the female, of students that are
female. What about black students in
engineering? We don't have very many. That's a
very difficult problem. We've had them.
Certainly we would love to have more, but we don't
have very many right now. We do have some. Why do you
think you have so few blacks in engineering? I
don't know. The only thing, whatever I would say
would be just... opinion. I don't have any hard
data. I suspect that because of the availability
of Prairie View, well, a lot of our students come
from the Houston-Harris County area, and
proximity of Prairie View to Houston, I would
suspect, draws off a number of them. But that's, if
you really want to know the answer to that, I think
you'd have to ask somebody who looked into it. What
about foreign students in civil engineering? We
don't have many in the undergraduate program. We
have So 25% or 30% of our graduate program is
foreign students. That seems also to be rising. I
suspect we could, I'm not sure we could double, but
certainly increase significantly the number of
foreign students in the graduate program if we
would reduce our requirements on the language. We
still try to stick pretty rigidly to a language
requirement. The students who come here from
foreign countries, we require them to be
reasonably proficient in the language because we
don't think it's right to slow down the other
students with a large contingent of students in a
classroom who are not reasonably good at the
language. Are you talking about foreign students
who have difficulty with English? Yes, yes. You
require foreign languages then for the Ph.D. in
civil engineering? No. That language
requirement was dropped several years before I
came here. So we have no language
requirement. What you're referring to then there
is the fact that some farm students have
difficulty speaking English. It's like anyone
born in one country learning another language as a
foreign language, certainly. Any one of us would
have trouble with winter school in France or
wherever. What are the average salary that a
beginning civil engineer with a bachelor's
degree can expect? That's changing so rapidly,
it's hard to keep up. I would say, though,
that $20,000 to $25,000 a year would not be unusual
at all. People who go to work for municipalities
and some of the other government agencies might
not get as high salaries. People who go to work for
the oil companies who are outstanding students
would go above that. But that's a range, average
range. What about with a PhD in civil engineering?
How much more salary would they expect? That's so
broad that it's almost impossible to answer.
There's not enough data to peg any average
figures, but certainly above $30,000 a year. Do
you have any figures or any estimate on what
percent of students in the engineering college
are in the civil engineering department? Well, I
can pull out some figures in a hurry. Last fall,
there were, let's say, 1,200 students in civil,
and there were 10,500 approximately students in
the college. Now, those are not all engineering
students. There are some degree programs in the
College of Engineering that are not engineering,
not programs leading to bachelor's degree in
engineering. That's total, the undergraduate
and graduate. So whatever 1,200 is as a percent of
10,000. So it's about 10%, 11%, something like
that. Probably 12, yeah.
When you came in 1973, do you recall how many civil
engineering students there were at that time? I
don't have that. I mean, I have the number. I just
don't have it right before me. I would say...
probably in the order total again comparing that
1200 figure on the order of six or 800, something
like that.
How does civil engineers compare to other
engineers in salary ranges? That's a changing
thing. And also the impact over the past two years
of The demand for petroleum engineers and
chemical engineers have just changed the picture
completely. But two years ago, I would have
answered that civil engineers probably run a
little behind mechanicals and electricals and
petroleum or chemicals, perhaps, but ahead of
aerospace and some of the others. That's
changing, and it will probably change. I know it
will change in the future, for example, if the
government goes ahead with the large defense
program, that will impact the demand for
aerospace engineers. So the whole thing will
change. Some of the petroleum engineers, the
salaries for the graduates of petroleum
engineers are something that we would not have
dreamed of even two or three years ago. We're
probably average or a little below, though, if you
take out all those extreme data points. I wouldn't
say it's enough. I personally would not think it's
enough to impact anyone's career decision. It's
not that significant.
Do you have any idea on how the civil engineering
program at Texas A&M ranks with programs at other
universities? No, you see figures on those things
and sometimes we appear in the ratings and
sometimes we don't. I'm very skeptical of those. I
guess if A&M's civil engineering department
always came in at number one, I'd say they were very
accurate. But nevertheless, it's terribly hard
for me to see what those ratings mean. When you say
the best, I don't know what the terms are. I believe
quite often that the way those ratings are made,
what they're really relating is the current
gossip among academicians,
and also probably more heavily reflective of the
graduate program, because that's really where
publicity comes quite often. But the only thing I
can say, I guess we have shown up in those, and we've
not shown up in others. But certainly, I
personally think we're in the top 20. But that's,
again, a subjective judgment.
What are some of the changes that you've seen since
you came here eight years ago, in those eight
years? Regarding what? Regarding civil
engineering. In the department? Well, certainly
increasing the number of students, increasing
the faculty. We now have been able to attract
several young, very, very promising assistant
professors.
I think as time goes on,
the department will tend to get, and in fact right
now, is tending to get a little younger. Not that we
are terribly old in the sense of the faculty
department by any means, but there are some people
retiring. And because of the increasing number of
students we have, we've had positions and have
been able to fill them with younger people. I think
the department is becoming more oriented towards
research, though I'm convinced not to the
detriment of our teaching program. We have not
changed there on our feelings of the importance of
the undergraduate teaching program. I think we
feel that we can continue to have a strong
undergraduate teaching program in spite of a
growing and changing, to a certain extent,
changing research program. The facilities have
not changed. That's one of our problems, but
there's some light on the horizon as far as our
facilities are concerned. We're getting more
office space. We're going to have available in a
couple of years a graduate research laboratory. I
guess I'm telling you what we'd like to see change
rather than what I have seen change, but we'd like
to see improvement in our undergraduate teaching
laboratories, which We're in very bad shape
there. The curriculum has changed. The
curriculum, as I said earlier, has reached 146
semester hours. That's gone up over the past. In
fact, that went up just two years ago.
The topics covered in the curriculum have
changed. We think that our curriculum, as far as
the topics covered, is probably about as broad and
also as modern as any in the country. We have not
responded to fads so much as other places have. So
the changes, I think, that we've made in the
curriculum have been very positive changes.
What are some of the fads that other colleges have
changed? Well, during the post-Sputnik era, so
many engineering colleges became colleges of
engineering science. I can't take any credit for
resisting that because I was not here but A&M by and
large resisted that keeping in mind that
engineering is a profession and that engineers
are charged with the actual design and
implementation not just analysis of various
things engineering works and so we have continued
to have a very practical bent that is where we want
our graduates to be able to go out, A&M, and
actually take responsible charge of the design
and construction of engineered works. Some of the
other schools, I believe, became more, also with
the advent of computers, became more heavily
analytically oriented. And there are students in
some of these places that students really are not
prepared to function as engineers, in my
judgment. as well as ours are. Have you seen a
change in the quality of the student entering
civil engineering in the last eight years? I think
so. In fact, I think in even a shorter period of time
than that, the quality has gone up. Now, I could be
just reacting or reflecting various scores that
I've seen, the average SAT score, for example, for
entering engineering students is now, I believe
this is right, is the highest of any of the colleges
at A&M. That's a change from the past several
years. With my own classroom teaching, the
students are, I believe, are better as students,
reflecting also a national trend, I think. The
students are much more interested in getting
useful and much more pragmatic. They want to learn
things in the classroom where they can see a direct
use, a direct application when they get out of
here. I personally think that's something the
faculty have to resist. It's impossible, I think,
to identify any practical use with everything
that you do. I think what we have to do is educate
them as well as we see fit to be good, broad, solid
practicing engineers. But the students are, I
believe, much more pragmatic than they were
several years ago. But I believe they're better
students. They certainly seem to want to get on
with the program, as it were. Of course, they're
always the exception. Well, that would seem a
conflict that general apparent prevailing
public opinion that the quality of students is
decreasing. We have pretty high admission
standards. And A&M has high admission standards.
Engineering tends to get those students who, of
course, are interested in and thereby probably
more proficient than average in technical
subjects, mathematics and science and so on. But I
believe that all my colleagues have told me the
same thing, at least the ones with whom I've
discussed this. But I think that the quality of
students that we're getting in this college and
this department is generally tending to
increase.
I said one thing about the women students. The
women students, the early women students, again,
this is a subjective reaction, were better on
average than the men students. We had some
outstanding, and still do, we had outstanding
women students. As more and more women enter the
program, though, I think, as you would expect,
they seem to be about as good, but not any better or
any worse than the average male student. Many
grades and all that would support that. I don't
know. Again, that's a subjective judgment. Do you
have any figures on what percent of the students
who start a program in civil engineering finally
finish the master's degree? No, I don't. We could
get those. I just don't remember what they are. We
do have a kind of peculiar, what I think is
peculiar, anomaly.
Most of the time, when you think of a four-year
curriculum, you think, at least I would think
normally, that the largest group would be the
freshmen. the next largest the sophomores, and so
on down. That's not the case here. The largest
group we have are the seniors. We're just almost
completely reversed. Our freshman class tends to
be smaller than the sophomore, which tends to be,
although there are exceptions, than the junior,
and the senior being the largest of them all. We get
a lot of transfers, students who started in other
fields of engineering at A&M, and also students
who go to the first two or three years at other
colleges and then transfer in. So the transfers
tend to swell our upper division classes as
compared to the freshmen. We don't have a large
attrition rate, though, I don't believe. We lose
some, of course, but we don't lose a lot of students
to just flunking out. I mean, with a freshman class
in the top quarter of their high school class, And
good SAT scores, you wouldn't expect to lose a big
bunch. Do you have any notion of what that average
SAT score is for people in this program? Not in
civil. In engineering, it was, I believe it was the
last fall, it was on the order. It was between 1050
and 1100. I forget the figures. I don't want to
quote a wrong figure. I believe it was around 1070.
I'm just trying to drag that up from my memory, but
it was on that order. I do remember, though, it was
the highest of all the colleges A&M. It was the
highest average. That's on which test? That's the
SAT. I thought the SAT used a scale of 1 through 30.
No. They must have changed their scale. They quote
them in, it's an arbitrary scale, but as I
remember, 1,000, a total of 1,000, is real close to
the 50th percentile. Could you tell us briefly,
what the future outlook of civil engineers for the
80s would be in your judgment? I think it looks
good. I think all engineering looks good. Civil
engineering has the trend, the tendency, is for it
to follow the population, if nothing else,
because as the population expands, we have a
greater need for all those things that support the
population, transportation and sanitary.
But Even now, I was told the other day that if you
compare new student acceptances for the fall, the
first of June figures, compare new student
acceptances for the fall with the same figures for
last year, we're up 9%. This kind of just continues
the trend that's been going on for years. We've
been growing. The civil engineering enrollment
here has been growing more or less linearly. with
some wiggles in the lines, of course, but more or
less linearly for the last decade. I think that
that shows all signs of continuing. Certainly,
the demand for civil engineers is probably going
to continue. Also, the fact that civil
engineering here, at least, the civil
engineering graduates have a pretty broad
education, that is something that a lot of the
major companies want, the major oil companies,
for example. If they can't hire petroleum
engineers, they're happy with civils or
mechanicals. And so there's a demand there for
civil engineers in what's considered not to be a
classical civil engineering field. So I'd say
that the 80s look good. In fact, if you look at the
demographics, there might be a small drop in
availability of high school students, certainly
a small drop nationally an even smaller drop in
Texas of people graduating from high schools who
would be going to college next. So if anything,
that might mean, from a demand point of view, that
if the demand continues to rise and then there is a
smaller group of people who are going to be going
through the colleges, that those people who do go
through the colleges in engineering are going to
have even better job opportunities, I'd say. I
know it's somewhat contradictory. I'm not really
even sure that that's going to affect our
enrollments. The drop in the number of high school
students from the figures I've seen at least seem
to be fairly small in Texas. But I'd say that just
generally as a career that it will probably
continue to be good. We're less subject to some of
the fluctuations of some of the other
engineering. For example, the aerospace
industry. tend to be much more, to fluctuate much
more than civil engineering. Well, aerospace
industry was in a slump for many years in the 70s,
wasn't it? Yes, sure was. And it's just now
beginning to climb up out of that. Petroleum
engineers, you had a very difficult time getting
petroleum engineering graduates jobs a while
back. But now, of course, it's just the sky's the
limit.
OK, we're going to turn the tape, and I want to ask
you about that. Tell me about that railroad
charity we're talking about. I put that on the
tape. It's fixing to run off, though. OK. How much
longer do you think you want? About 10 more
minutes. You pressed to go somewhere. Well, I've
just got other things I've got to do. But take your
time.